---
layout: post
title:  "Generating Java Classes from WSDL file"
date:   2023-11-06 23:00:00 +0000
categories: wsdl2java apachecxf gradle kotlin
---

One of the key disadvantages of relying heavily on tightly coupled third-party tools is the risk of compatibility issues during upgrades. When a critical plugin is no longer maintained or fails to support newer versions of core frameworks, it can cause significant delays and technical debt. By building and maintaining our own solution, we reduce this dependency and ensure long-term stability in our build process.

Rather than replacing it with another Gradle plugin, I decided to implement the functionality myself. This approach gives us better control and flexibility over our applications.

Feel free to adapt this to your needs—you could also implement the same functionality using a custom Gradle task if preferred.

<a href="https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/custom_tasks.html">Custom Gradle Task</a>

The configuration should be defined in build.gradle.kt file. This is tested in gradle 8.1.1 and Java 11.

{% highlight gradle %}
val wsdl2java by configurations.creating
configurations {
    wsdl2java
}

tasks.register("generateJavaFromWsdl") {
    ext["destDir"] = "${buildDir}/generated/wsdl"
    ext["destDir"]?.let { mkdir(it) }
    println("Adding sourceset ${buildDir}/generated/wsdl")
    sourceSets {
        main {
            java {
                srcDirs("${buildDir}/generated/wsdl")
            }
        }
    }
    doLast {
        println("Generating java from wsdl file")
        ant.withGroovyBuilder {
            "java"(
                "fork" to true,
                "classname" to "org.apache.cxf.tools.wsdlto.WSDLToJava",
                "dir" to "${projectDir}"
            ) {
                "arg"("value" to "-client")
                "arg"("value" to "-d")
                "arg"("value" to "${buildDir}/generated/wsdl")
                "arg"("value" to "-encoding")
                "arg"("value" to "UTF-8")
                "arg"("value" to "-wsdlLocation")
                "arg"("value" to "classpath:wsdl/REPLACE_WSDL_NAME.wsdl")
                "arg"("value" to "${projectDir}/src/main/resources/wsdl/REPLACE_WSDL_NAME.wsdl")

                "classpath" {
                    "pathelement"(
                        "path" to wsdl2java.asPath
                    )
                }
            }
        }
    }
}

dependencies {
    wsdl2java("org.apache.cxf:cxf-tools-wsdlto-core:3.5.5")
    wsdl2java("org.apache.cxf:cxf-tools-wsdlto-frontend-jaxws:3.5.5")
    wsdl2java("org.apache.cxf:cxf-tools-wsdlto-databinding-jaxb:3.5.5")
}
{% endhighlight %}